Main skills to work on: 
 
    1.	Level of problem-solving ability and its consistency (Strategy) 
    
        a.	Ensure you understand the problem 
        
            i.	 Repeat the problem in your own words 
            ii.	 Check assumptions and ask clarifying questions

                 - clarify intended input
                 - clarify intended output
                 - clarify edge cases
                 - performance constraints

            iii. Use real examples
            
                 - Use real input to illustrate what the working solution would look like
                 - Draw physical representations of problems to help explore the problem space.
            
            iv.	 Validate your understanding *Write informal tests which covers output validation and constraints, start with previously defined examples

            *Steps ii - iv are attempts to tackle ambiquity and formally define and reduce the space the solution must exist in
        
        b.	Brainstorm solutions and select one *Always start with a brute force solution 
        
            i.	 Try to come up with at least one solution that will satisfy all pre-written test cases first, regardless of space/time complexity 
            ii.  Transcribe this solution into written form when practical, taking into account very minor implementation details
            iii. Determine the practicality of implementation, what trade-offs can be made for the problem
            iv.  Brainstorm optimizations of previous solutions based on space/time complexity optimization and edit transcribed solution accordingly
            v.	 Choose a best-fit solution after previous analysis *Get interviewer approval before writing any executable code

        c.  Implement solution

            i.  Implement chosen solution by transcribing previous write-up into code, writing it cleanly and easy to read
                 
                a. Self-descriptive variables 
                b. Self-descriptive methods 
                c. If a code-block warrants explanation, put it in a method and properly name the method
                d. Test the code by walking through it with pre-written test cases and make adjustments where necessary
            
            ii. After implementation, ask the question 'Can we do better?' and then attempt to answer that question with previous brain-storming technique.
    
    2.	Coding ability *a.k.a. produce a good code sample (Tactics) 
    
        a.	Ensure your code is readable and easy to understand 
        
            i.	 Self-descriptive variables 
            ii.	 Self-descriptive methods 
            iii. If a code-block warrants explanation, put it in a method and properly name the method 
        
        b.	Ensure your code is actually solving the problem presented 
        
            i.	Step through the code line by line and ensure it passes pre-written test cases         
        
        c.	Modular *Code-block can be reused through reference and is unit-testable D.R.Y (Do not repeat yourself) 
        
        d.	Deep understanding of programming language. *JavaScript in this case 
        
            i.	Use language specific methods whenever practical 
            ii.	Understand language constraints *How the language accomplishes tasks which can cause errors 
        
        e.	Deep understanding of Data Structures and Algorithms implementation 
        
            i.	 Space/Time complexity 
            ii.	 Use cases *Appropriate uses, inappropriate uses
            iii. Constraints *Input and Output 
        
        f.	Y.A.G.N.I (You ain't gonna need it!!) Don't build something until you need it 
    
    3.	Communication ability *Remember the interview process is very humam, not objective!!!
    
        a.  Be personable and human but yourself. Don't give an interviewer a reason to dislike you as best as you can throughout the interview.
        b.  Always communicate your intention as you’re going through the processes 
        c.  Ensure what you communicate is understood by those who need to know *Speak clearly and concisely, ensure the interviewer at least has some idea of what you are doing 
        d.  Collaboration *Ensure the interviewer understands what's going on, seek help when you are stuck and do so early
        e.  Remember to accept and process feedback from the interviewer. *They're there to help you succeed so respect their feedback and give it it's day in court
        f.  Ask what can be ignored for the sake of brevity and time *Understanding language tools really helps with this  

    4. Miscelleaneous things to consider
        
        a.  Be able to talk about your resume for every single interview you do
        b.  Make copies of your resume available whenever you can either physically or digitally.
        c.  Try to put your passion for learning and technology on showcase *This can be done through the resume or even discussing your interview prep
        d.  Be prepapred to bring your own materials to every interview *Whiteboard markers, erasers. Keep the likeliness of a delay to a minimum