Main skills to work on: 
 
    1.	Level of problem-solving ability and its consistency (Strategy) 
    
        a.	Ensure you understand the problem 
        
            i.	 Repeat the problem in your own words 
            ii.	 Check assumptions and ask clarifying questions *E.g. clarify intended input, clarify intended output, clarify edge cases, performance constraints 
            iii. Use real examples *Use real input to illustrate what the working solution would look like, ignore implementation 
            iv.	 Validate your understanding *Write informal tests which covers output validation and constraints 
        
        b.	Brainstorm solutions and select one *Always start with the brute force solution 
        
            i.	 Try to come up with at least one solution that will satisfy all pre-written test cases first, regardless of space/time complexity 
            ii.	 Brainstorm multiple optimizations of previous solutions based on space/time complexity optimization 
            iii. Determine practicality of implementation, what trade-offs can be made for the problem 

        c.  Implement solution

            i.	 Choose a best-fit solution after previous analysis. *Get interviewer approval before writing any executable code
            ii.  Implement chosen solution, writing clean and easy to read code that will fulfill pre-written test cases.
            iii. After implementation, ask the question 'Can we do better?' and then attempt to answer that question.
    
    2.	Coding ability *a.k.a. produce a good code sample (Tactics) 
    
        a.	Ensure your code is readable and easy to understand 
        
            i.	 Self-descriptive variables 
            ii.	 Self-descriptive methods 
            iii. If a code-block warrants explanation, put it in a method and properly name the method 
        
        b.	Ensure your code is actually solving the problem presented 
        
            i.	Step through the code line by line and ensure it passes pre-written test cases 
        
        
        c.	Modular *Code-block can be reused through reference and is unit-testable D.R.Y Do not repeat yourself 
        
        d.	Deep understanding of programming language. *JavaScript in this case 
        
            i.	Use language specific methods whenever practical 
            ii.	Understand language constraints *How the language accomplishes tasks which can cause errors 
        
        e.	Deep understanding of Data Structures and Algorithms implementation 
        
            i.	 Space/Time complexity 
            ii.	 Use cases *Appropriate uses, inappropriate uses
            iii. Constraints *Input and Output 
        
        f.	Y.A.G.N.I *You ain't gonna need it Don't build something until you need it 
    
    3.	Communication ability 
    
        a.	Always communicate your intention as you’re going through the processes 
        b.	Ensure what you communicate is understood by those who need to know *Speak clearly and concisely, ensure the interviewer at least has some idea of what you are doing 
        c.	Collaboration *Ensure the interviewer understands what's going on, seek help when you are stuck and do so early 
        d.	Ask what can be ignored for the sake of brevity and time *Understanding language tools really helps with this 
        e.	Keep the interviewer engaged, make the interview a conversation and not a firing squad 
